-: Welcome back.
In this lecture,
we are going to learn the pause
and resume deployment options in our Kubernetes deployments.
So let's go inside that 0404 pause
and then resume deployments, right?
So why do we need pausing and then resuming deployments?
So if we want to make multiple changes to our deployments,
we can pause the deployment,
make all changes to our deployment,
and then resume it.
So if you don't do so,
as soon as you keep applying the changes
to your deployment, live deployment,
then automatically the changes gets deployed
and then parts get terminated and then recreated, okay?
So what we are going to do is
we are going to make two changes.
One is we are going to make our application version
from V3 to V4 as part of this pause and resume deployments,
and one more change also we are going to apply
about applying the CPU limits for our application.
So we are going to do all those things, okay?
So before that,
check current state of your deployment
and then application, right?
So if you see kubectl rollout history deployment,
my first deployment,
and then see our application, current,
rollout versions, whatever we have here, right?
So we are at six with the kubectl
added deployment here, right?
So we are at six now, which means,
and also verify your number of replica sets,
how many you have currently, right?
So mostly you should have four replica sets here, right?
So now if you create one more version,
one more replica set should get created, okay?
Make a note of the number of replica sets present here.
We have currently four replica sets present.
And our rolling versions also we are seeing
till six we are here.
And one more thing is access your application
and see the application version.
So now I am accessing it,
and if you see we are in the V3 version of our application.
So let's go inside and then pause deployment
and make these two changes, okay?
So now what I'm going to do is kubectl rollout pause.
And it's like I'm going to pause our respective
my first deployment.
So let's go ahead and then do that now.
Kubectl rollout pause deployment
and my first deployment, right?
So once we have paused our deployment,
so we can make whatever the changes we want to.
So we are going to update our application
from V3 to V4 using 4.0.0.
Earlier whenever you have done this set image command,
automatically changes happen
and then all the parts got recreated,
all those things, okay?
So, but now whenever you do this,
nothing should happen okay?
So as our deployment got paused,
whatever you do on the live deployment object,
nothing should happen.
So everything should be as is.
So if you go ahead
and then see the rollout history, okay?
So we should see the same thing, which is nothing,
but it is only at the sixth level, right?
So no rollout history
because it is in the deployment pause mode.
If you see the replica sets,
you should have the same count of replica sets,
whatever you have seen earlier,
which is four replica sets, right?
So now if you resume the deployment,
so then automatically changes will happen.
Before that, we'll also make one more change saying that
kubectl set resources for my first deployment
with the, for the container kube Nginx,
and I'm saying how much memory
and then how much this one I'm going to allocate.
I'm writing it here.
So maybe I am using a simple cluster here,
so this might be a bigger number,
which is nothing but 52 MI and all those things.
So I will say, okay, 30 MI, okay?
30 MB or even less, okay?
So I'm not even putting anything, right?
So, and then I'm going to put 20, right?
20 MCPU, okay?
So instead of 200 MCPU,
I'm just giving 20 MCPU, right?
So, and then make this change, right?
So why, because I'm using a T3 medium cluster.
So ideally if I use this much,
then I am already using 10 ports,
so then it is going to create
a lot of problem for us, okay?
So this error you can ignore.
So it's a timeout error, okay?
The change got applied, okay?
So now if you go ahead and then see your rollout history,
still nothing should happen.
We have made two changes but nothing should happen
because still we didn't resume our deployment, right?
So, and if you see the application version also,
it will be only V3 only, okay?
So now let's go ahead
and then resume our application deployment.
So kubectl rollout resume
and then deployment slash my first deployment.
So let me do that.
So as soon as we do this
and then see the rollout history,
then you should see the seventh version coming in.
You see the kubectl get ports
and they should get created, right?
And then few are terminating
and then few are creating.
So all these things happens now, okay?
And we can go ahead
and then access our application
and see what happens, okay?
So let me go to my application
and then access it once all ports are ready.
And also let's cross-check our replica sets count,
get RS, right?
Earlier it is four replica sets
and now as it is 4.0.0 version,
we should have five replica sets, okay?
One, two, three, four, five.
That's good.
So now let's go ahead and then access our application.
We should see the V4 version of our application.
See now we have the V4 version.
So we have successfully tested
in deployment the following things.
Creating a deployment, scaling the deployment,
exposing the deployment as in node port service,
and updating the deployment
with two options available for us,
which is set image and then edit deployment.
And also we have rolled back the deployments
using to previous version
and to specific version.
And in addition to that,
we also tested the pause and then resume deployment.
So this completes the deployment section
using the imperative commands.
So let's go ahead and then do the clean up
of whatever we have created, right?
So kubectl get deployments
and then delete deployment, right?
Delete, deploy, and my first deployment got deleted, right?
In the same way, delete SVC, right?
So before that we'll get the name of the service, get SVC,
and then delete service, my first deployment service, right?
So now if you see kubectl get all
from our default name space,
other than cluster IPF Kubernetes,
nothing should be there.
So we have completely cleaned up everything.
So this completes that deployment section,
and in our next section is going to be services,
and then we will see services concepts in our next section.
So I'll see you in the next lecture.
Until then, bye-bye.
Thank you.